---
layout: slide
title: Pry alternative for IRB
description: A presentation slide for how to use Pry
theme: black
transition: slide
permalink: /pry-alternative-for-irb
author: Pooja Raghunath
post_thumbnail: /slides/images/pry.jpg
profile_image: /slides/profiles/pooja-raghunath.jpg
---

<section data-markdown>
# PRY- Alternative for IRB 

Jan 20, 2016
</section>

<section>
  <h4>Pooja Raghunath</h4>
  <p>
    Ruby Developer@RedPanthers
  </p>
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Introduction
What is PRY?

PRY is REPL (Read Eval Print Loop) that was written as a better alternative to IRB.
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Main Features

* Easier to debug code
* Provide proper indendation

</section>
<section data-markdown>
### Features -- contd.
 * Besides indentation Pry does a lot more. 
 * A feature that I think is very cool is the ability to show documentation and source code of methods right in your REPL .
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Features -- contd.
* View the documentation or source for a method
* Search your Pry history
* Edit and reload files
* Run shell commands
* Dive into objects

</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Features -- contd.
Instead of ri and Rdoc documentation PRY uses show method or show-doc command.
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Features -- contd.
Calling show-doc pry would instead show the following:
  pry(main)> show-doc pry

From: /path/trimmed/for/readability/lib/pry/core_extensions.rb @ line 19:
Number of lines: 17
Owner: Object
Visibility: public
Signature: pry(target=?)
</section>



<section data-markdown>
### How to install PRY?
* Install Pry within each project using Bundler inorder to utilize the debugging feature.
* First add Pry to your Gemfile: gem ‘pry’
* For running a Rails project, then place Pry under development group.



</section>

<section data-markdown>
  ###Pry Commands
  * ack and Ctags can be used for browsing content
  * cd  Change self
  * List global variables: ls -g
  * List constants: ls -c
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### pry gem vs pry_rails_gem
* The pry-rails gem simply adds an initializer to change the Rails console to Pry and adds some Pry commands specific to Rails. 
* Pry-rails depends on Pry, and there's no reason you couldn't use Pry with Rails without pry-rails, it just makes it easier.
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Pry  as  debugger
* pry_debugg gem
* pry_stack_explorer
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Pry  as  debugger
Use 'binding.pry'

Ruby interpeter will stop execute till line containing binding.pry and it open pry REPL session at that point.  
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Reference 
http://pryrepl.org/
https://github.com/pry/pry
https://www.bignerdranch.com/blog/my-top-5-pry-features/
</section>

<section data-markdown>
### Thank You !!!
<section>